WINGAIM:
	font issues?
	resizing windows does not work correctly [what's the problem here?]
		resizing blist only updates window when you let go of mouse,
		i can't think of what else i might have ment after having 
		deryni test things
	Gtk windows that appear when you hover over a button, and just stay there and never close until you click on them once
	sounds while away?	

gtk2/new prefs
	most toolbar buttons stay depressed after being clicked once, only raise when clicked a second time.
		smiles and links do not.
	replace legend in info dialog with link to status icons page
	buddy ticker stays arou+nd when you sign off - showing the 
		buddies who were online
	need a close button on conversations for when its tabed if nothing else. [ROB]
	text like <font color=blah>with only some text</font> being colored causes the whole line to be colored. 
	lots of font troubles. esp in picking good fonts to use when the theme doesn't have an installed one.
	on away tab, if you set the time between responces, you 
		reset the type of idle time reporting. similar
		problems may exist in other combinations.
	selecting debug window in prefs doesn't stick (isn't saved).
	when auto-away (by idle time) is activated, away message window 
		does not pop up.
	pressing save on new away message dialog does not immediately add 
		away message to list of away messages. 
	ignore font faces doesn't ignore the font faces in a person's info
	kicking someone in #name-extention causes a kick to display in #name as well
		and vice-versa
	the preference for the width of a chat is not being used when chats and 
		conversations are in the same window.
	resizing text entry area below default doesn't work well.
		some people report being unable to shrink it at all
	escape to close window pref or function doesn't work right
		has to do with incorrect initial focus.
	there is a blank line in the blist for a couple seconds after someone
		signs off. [gtk2 bug with the deprecated gtklist?]
	themes don't set background correctly in the blist. (reported, not verified)

GAIM-REMOTE:
	need a doc written up for gaim-remote on usage
	need to implement everything listed in gaim-remote --help

PORTABILITY/i18n
icq i18n
info dialog
irc (patch pending?)(done?)
	
DISCUSSION:
	protocol action to log into webmail for those that support such
		(aim, yahoo, msn)
		maybe a r-click option to send to user(yahoo, msn)
	"console beep" sound option should use different frequency beeps
		for different events, or at least give some way to allow
		this behavior. 
	do we really need some of the preferences? (Ignore TIK messages.
		Does anyone use that method of retrieving Away messages anymore?)
		toc does?
	show alias in list of people in chat
	tab complete to alias, translate to nick on send for chat
	disable x on blist when docklet loaded?
	timestamp on debug messages?
	ximian serial numbers in rpms cause... problems.
	sorting of conversation tabs, if the ordering of left-to-right
		order by opening isn't good enough for you
	msn auth expires (better, but still not perfect)
	rpm and deb installs should create menu items in kde if possible
	gaim should detect if message is sent and only log on success
		for protocols capable of offline messaging, this would
		always log, but aim messages would only be logged if
		sent to an online person. this would essentially entail
		making logging dependent on the return status of the
		serv send msg command. 
	option to disable close for x seconds after recieve im. this would
		short circuit missing messages as you close the window.
		make it an option that's off by default. 
	the privacy dialog has five different options now.  this looks
		rather ugly.  When we redesign the dialog, perhaps we should
		change the privacy setting to a combobox? 
	options on key bindings. (differnet window managers map different things. 
		make the control key switchable with the alt key or similar)
		maybe make control/alt+arrow optionally replace control+bracket
		is this a good idea?


IN GENERAL:
	add a way for a plugin to store/retrive config values
	segfault on pressing back with messages in queue if coming back
		for the second time in a given instance of gaim
	stack trace should exit instead of just sitting there
	documentation needed. (both online and not)
	check to make sure gaimrc properly unescapes things like a " in 
		a password as the .gaimrc file is read in.
	PERMIT ONLY PEOPLE ON MY LIST TO IM ME IS NEEDED ASAP!!!!!!!!
		this is now possible for aim, but not for yahoo et al
	automake 1.4 support bug, non-root users can't get gaim to compile
		by putting the gtk2 and glib2 m4 files in the m4 dir
	automake 1.6 support not perfect.
	add ircproxy option to proxy preferences.
	per-sn controls on how to compute idle time
	self alias does not display in irc chat. (and maybe other chats)
	adding and removing buddies needs cleaned up.
		basically, add_buddy should be calling ui_add_buddy 
		and serv_add_buddy as needed (require an extra arg to 
		add_buddy to tell it what needs done) and the various
		ways a buddy can come to be needing added should be
		calling some type of request_add_buddy (this would be
		part of both the core<->ui interface and the core<->prpl
		interface
	convert from licq and eb to gaim
		licq has a directory with one file per buddy
		eb i don't know. but the trick there would be 
		converting to several accounts at once.
		we have a perl script for licq and c code for eb.
	fix memory leaks
	block buddy option from right click menu in blist
	sounds/Makefile needs to use host CC, not target 
		(thats the only part that seems broken for cross-compiling)
		--Disconnect
	screenshot plugin
	xmms remote plugin
	statusimage plugin
	status report w/out being on own list
	SEARCH FUNCTION FOR LOG FILES
	preference to set logfile path. (i think there is a patch to add this)
	gzip storage of logs
	fix crash when someone writes just as you close the chat window.
	make the option to have escape close a window be global (error messages, account editor, ect)
	throw-away away message (unsaved) for single account (vrs set all away)

----
THE CORE:
	Need to write the core side of the core-ui protocol
	Non-blocking gethostbyname()
	Cancelable proxy_connect
	remember previous state better. both away, and allow start to invisible.
	better privacy controls.
	memory of last status preserved beyond shutdown, on a per-account basis
	ability to unload a single perl script
	networking code rethink (libgnet?)
	netbsd gethostbyname() problem
	GPG Encryption of messages (gaim-e plugin included with gaim would satify this)
	Separate core functions from UI stuff.
		about.c, applet.[ch], away.c, browser.c, buddy.c, conversation.c,
		convo.h, dialogs.c, gtk*, plugins.c, prefs.c, prpl.c, sound.c,
		ticker.c, ui.h
			little to no work (mostly GTK)

		core.[ch], html.c, list.c, module.c, multi.h, proxy.[ch], perl.c,
		prpl.h, util.c
			little to no work (mostly CORE)

		buddy_chat.c, gaim.h, idle.c, multi.c, server.c
			standard splitting (for idleness, core needs to be in
			charge of gaim-use idleness)

		aim.c - need to redo main() completely
			- current main should be moved mostly to core
			- GTK main should connect to core
		gaimrc.c - Need to figure out how to save UI preferences

		Ideally at the end of this the prpls should only need to include
		prpl.h and they'll get everything they need without anything
		*cough*GTK*cough* that they don't.

----
THE PROTOCOLS:

TOC:
	Other RVOUS Actions

AIM(via oscar):
	groups are read off server in a different order from
		winaim. this is a problem for people who use
		both and want thier list to be in a certain 
		order. along the same lines, because we
		don't read in the same order i'd bet, 
		we don't write to the server in a way
		that would cause winaim to produce the
		ordering gaim has. 
	option to ignore chat room invitations. (this is something you 
		could vary concievably want to be done per account, 
		so perhaps a protocol action would be best)
	some way to close direct connect w/out closing convo.
	idle time display in get_info displays in minutes instead
		of computing hours and days as the blist does
	in non-tabed conversations, clicking the x to close the
		window does not close the direct connection.
		using escape and the close button do.
	STILL have blist corruption troubles?
	canceled direct im should still allow new attempt
	failed direct im attempt should allow new attempt
		some way to cancel an attempt that isn't happening
	Colors in Chat room are wrong (using Gold too much)
	away message when directly connected bug 
		only displays on one side
		if direct connected to winaim, lockup when 
			winaim goes away, unlocks when winaim returns
	Voice Chat

ICQ(via oscar, who cares about the icq prpl):
	get info on offline user incorrectly says user is online.
	typing notification
	set the Nickname to be the self-alias
	Chat (this is different from aim chat)
	File Transfer (do we really want this?)
	New User Registration
	color support
	more privacy options
	more info support
	increased authorization support
	set status message 
		and of course when gaim can set them, it needs to
		be able to get the ones it sets. (yes this is 
		redundent. its a reflection of my current mood)
	search for users
	option to set alias to nick

Yahoo:
	new mail message with no info in it ie ()
	web cam support
	bug: won't allow me to delete myself from my list past sign on
	Chat
	File Transfer (do we really want this?)
	color (is this possible)?
		<fade> tags need parsed.
	encrypted conversations
	show idle time on blist
	display profile
	make away message display like that of aim/icq/jabber
	auto reply on away
	privacy options (block, unblock)
	voice chat

MSN:
	typing notification is broken in gtk1-stable
	spaces in friendly names not always unescaped for display, and so displaying
		as %20 (this may be fixed)
	bug: some people recieve blank messages. clicking to ignore font faces
		works around this problem. gaim should detect and use the default
		font when the requested font isn't found.
	Majortool says to tell sean about "already in opposite list" 
		errors are still happening, now whenever you start
		gaim. follow from prior conversation. 
		javabsp|away: the (C) and (R) works
		(23:02:54) MajorTool: LSchiere: yeah what javabsp|away 
		is talking about but its certain ones
	bug: doesn't save blist to file on read from server
		as this could be introducing new people,
		esp if there is no existing file, it shold.
	store group name that buddy is in on server
	set the friendly name to be the self alias
	typing notification in group chats
	start group chat support
	better group chat support in general
		lots of reports of problems.
	font face and color send support
	International freindly name support
	Need some way of indicating "invite" in IM window
	File Transfer (do we really want this?)
	auto reply on away
	people search function.
	voice chat

IRC:
	gaim generates ~5 popups when it fails to sign on
		an irc server because the nick is already
		in use.
	Error 421, unknown command when going away. sometimes.
	/ban, /kickban, /names
	CTCP version generates an autoreply when person is away or idle. 
		the error box used vy it also binds the focus (like
		all other error popups). i'm not sure there is a way
		around this second issue.
	fix segfault on attempted send after having been /remove'ed
	multi word remove messages
	auto reply to /msg on away 
	no list of people on /join 
	display target of +b and +q (done)?

Jabber:
	Segfault on account creation, esp. on register new account
	in 0.59.3, not replicated by me in cvs, timestamp
		is having a font size tag set (value of 10, obviously a point
		size), but the rest of the line isn't. 3 issues here:
		why is the size a point size, and why is only the tag around the 
		timestamp being set, and lastly why is it only happening in jabber
		for the reporter, and only jabber chats at that.
	problem seeing buddies with long blist?
	make password change take effect w/out restart
	*sigh* file transfer (do we really need/want this?)
	Jabber Transports (having them show up on the buddy list should be
		fairly easy; having an appropriate right-click menu for
		them should also be somewhat easy. Providing a UI for adding
		transports should be rather difficult.)
	Browsing
	Bug: Opening/closing/re-opening conferences (to the same "room"?)
		and changing conf. rm. nicks results in wrong nick re-appearing
		(to other clients) and crash on close of conference dialog.
	Server Admin operations (messages, etc.)
	Support new server feature for "invisibility"
	Add option for user info to be published or not in JUD.
	Ability to "IM" conference room "buddies"
	Some way to see/list roster items to which you have no subscription
		yourself?  Some way to delete them or subscribe to them if you want?
	Show self on buddylist
	Delete server account.
	Messaging an "Away" Jabber user doesn't get an away message back?
	Permit/Deny buddy support.
	List of users on Jabber server?
	SSL support
	show idle time on blist
	a populate roster from local blist. most useful if you want to migrate a 
		blist from one account to another, also useful if something freaky
		happens and the server blist is lost.
	conferenceing needs straightening out in general
		some s2s issues, maybe
		join room 2x issues, maybe
		colors for nicks

Napster: (should this even exist?)
	File Transfer (do we really want this?)
	New User Registration
	remove this protocol?

Zephyr:
	God help us.

Gadu-Gadu:
	New User Registration
	There's probably 100 other things but since I've hardly used the Windows
		client before I'm not sure what any of them are

----
THE UIS:
	make timestamp same size as nicks (optional?)

GTK1.2(some of this applies to gtk2 also):
	preference to ignore colors not being used or not being saved. in 0.59.5
	GLib-CRITICAL **: file gstrfuncs.c: line 1194 (g_strcasecmp): assertion `s1 != NULL' failed. 
		warnings in latest release.
		it seems that when a certain packet is received, the assertion fails. something 
		about SIGNON without PAUSE.
	choose a browser you don't have installed, click a link 2x, crash.
	option to have input box scroll instead of line wrap. input box only.
	BUG: hidden smilies don't always work right in protocols with specific smilies. even aim.
		this is somewhat transitory, and very annoying.
	copy grabs html as well as text. 
	tooltip for mute sound is wrong. should read "Mute" not "Sound" when sounds are on
	bug report: The pixmaps arrow_down.xpm and arrow_right.xpm don't have proper 
		transparency... it only causes problems if your GTK theme is pixmap based
	bug: if you remove a group in one prpl, it disappears from the online tab
		even if there are still buddies in that group online
	make it so that same sn entries don't merge. use gc's to do this
	right click on url gives browser choice (preference option)
	option to choose person on blist when adding to permit/deny lists
	prpl specfic smiles in group chats.
	alias's in chat list/invite
	make output of /list searchable
	option not to raise windows on event while away
	make entry widget height preference a relative size, that is it doesn't change the
		overall height of the window.
	Only show one instance of each aim_user at a time in the sign on dialog. 
		reset the progress bar on disconnect instead of creating a new entry.
	Status labels in buddy list (mostly just for yahoo/msn)
	buddy pounce -> drop down list of buddies
	buddy pounce -> add service to list of accounts
	buddy pounce -> add chooser to sound
	fix buddy ticker resize bug.
		can't shrink it below default
	Transparency for GtkIMHtml
	Rewrite the HTML parser in GtkIMHtml
	Moving GTK/GDK and related things out of the prpls
		TOC: file transfer (move into the core)
	Better way of showing away state - and possibly in main window
	Away needs to be modified to include "show" and "status", i.e. you can have
		an away state, and an away message. This is exactly what ICQ does -
		you're "N/A" (show in Jabber) and your away message is "I'm gone."
		(status in Jabber). Since it only applies to ICQ and Jabber (and
		actually, currently only Jabber, since icqlib doesn't handle away
		messages yet), there should be some way of indicating that it can
		do both without breaking the others. My suggestion is to put "/" at
		the end of the "state", and when that's there, have it be a menu with
		all of the custom messages, e.g. in Jabber it'd return "Away/" as one
		of the states, and you'd see "Away" with a menu of all the away
		messages you have.

	Need to write the ui side of the core-ui protocol

	Syd is cool and gave all of these ideas:
		Have multiple tickers in the same window, one for buddies
			like it is now, one for who just came online/offline
			(scrolled faster possibly because that doesn't
			happen very often), etc.
		Have tooltips on the passing buddies on the ticker
		Have a stock ticker (a plugin could easily make use of
			GtkTicker)



Then, of course, are all the Bugs that need to be fixed
	http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=100235&group_id=235&func=browse
	

and the Feature Requests. SourceForge should really allow users
to vote on feature requests and bugs.....
	http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=350235&group_id=235&func=browse
