GAIM: The Pimpin' Penguin IM Clone Thats Good For The Soul 

Welcome to the GAIM FAQ.  Please read this document to insure that you
are not asking us a question that has already been answered.  We will
most likely become slightly irritated with you and will either point
you to this FAQ or ignore you.  Of course, no harm is meant by this.  
We're two college aged kids, we both work and are very short on time.
If you have any comments, praise, or ideas please don't hesitate to 
contact us.  But please, don't initiate a conversation with "Hi" or 
"Can I ask you a question?"  We generally do not respond to these
comments because it takes too much time to get to the point of your
statement.  Simply say what you need to say and you'll more than
likely get a quick response :-). 

I. The Protocol
	1. Is it the same protocol as the Windows client uses?
	2. Where can I find info on TOC?
	3. What other clients use this protocol?
	4. TCP or UDP?
	5. So the buddy list is stored on the server?

II. The Client
	1. What does 'gaim' stand for?
	2. How do I make multiple groups?
	3. How come there's no file transfer?
	4. Why no AOL logo?
	5. Where are my log files stored?
	6. Can I use my Windows 95 Buddylist with Gaim?
	7. I'm not a native English speaker and I would like a translated
	   version of gaim.
        8. I've got a proxy, and I'd like to use GAIM.

III. Multiple Connections
	1. What do you mean by "multiple connections"?
	2. What's a PRPL?
	3. What happens when I load a new protocol?
	4. So how do I add accounts?
	5. This sucks. I want my old gaim back.

IV. Problems
	1. WAAAAAH!  My sound doesn't work!
	2. My buddy list disappeared!
	3. I click on URLs, but Netscape doesn't popup!
	4. I don't use Netscape.
	5. I'm using the GNOME client.  I have a bug. 
	6. I have a bug not described here.
	7. I have Mandrake 6.0 and GAIM doesnt work!

V. Programming
	1. I have a patch for gaim!
	2. I have a plugin for gaim!
	3. Can you teach me how to program GTK?

VI. Miscellaneous
	1. Can I talk to you on IM?
	2. I want to write an IM client.  Will you help me?
	3. I have money.  I need some software written.  Can you help?
	4. I have hardware here that's not being used, or money.  Can 
	   you use it?
	5. I would like to send you beer.
	6. Are you going to port this thing to Windows?
	7. Why the GPL?
	8. I use *BSD and I hate the penguin! I want daemon images!
	9. Can I design a logo for you?
       10. What is a wagii?
       11. Speaking of the penguin, I heard a rumour you have a tattoo of
	   it.  Is that true?
       12. What Window Manager do you use?  What distribution do you use?
	   What other stupid things can you ask me that don't really matter
	   but ya'll ask me anyway?
       13. Is XX a good Harddrive, YY a good monitor and ZZ a good CPU?
       14. Who designed the new logo?	
       15. I want to contribute to the effort.  Where can I send beer to?

I. The Protocol
	1. Is it the same protocol as the Windows client uses?
		No.  The Windows client uses Oscar, which is proprietary
and undocumented.  Some people have used network tools and such to figure
it mostly out -- Look for 'faim'.  We use TOC, which is completely open and
documented. 
		There is some support for libfaim now, which allows gaim to
use Oscar, and it's even becoming usable. Maybe one day it'll be the default
protocol, but it doesn't look like that's going to happen soon.

	2. Where can I find info on TOC?
		In the document called PROTOCOL. It's the version that was
published with AOL's TiK client version 0.75, which appears to be the last
one ever published.

	3. What other clients use this protocol?
		There are a few other Unix programs that use it, I think. I
really couldn't tell you though. AOL used to keep a list of them, but no more.
I think some of them are Everybuddy and Jabber. Oh yeah, TiK is still around.

	4. TCP or UDP?
		TCP.

	5. So the buddy list is stored on the server?
		Yep. Fortunately for you, when the server decides to *not* store
it any more, gaim keeps a cached copy.


II. The Client
	1. What does 'gaim' stand for?
		It's basically the letter 'g' tacked on to the beginning of
'AIM' (which is fairly obvious).  G stands for all sorts of good things. 
Girls, Godzilla, GTK, graham crackers, whatever.

	2. How do I make multiple groups?
		There are two ways: Click the "Group" button in the Edit Buddies
tab of the buddy list; or click the "Add" button and simply enter a new group
name.

	3. How come there's no file transfer?
		There is, it's just that you can't request for the transfer to
take place. Only people who use the Oscar protocol can, so you're out of luck
there. At least you can get and send files.

	4. Why no AOL logo?
		AOL's legal staff told us no-no.

	5. Where are my log files stored?
		After you select `log all conversations' you may be wondering
where your log files are stored. Well, they are currently, by default, stored
under $HOME/.gaim/YourScreenName/.  If your screen name is Zilding then you
will find your logs under: $HOME/.gaim/Zilding/.  This will eventually become
configurable.
	
	6. Can I use my Windows 95 buddylist with Gaim?
		Yes. Thanks to a couple great people (S D Erle and BMiller),
gaim can import your Win95 buddylist. Simply select "Import Buddy List" from
the buddy list window.

        7. I'm not a native English speaker and I would like a translated   
           version of gaim.
		There are a few translations of gaim. If you can do a
translation for us, I'd greatly appreciate it!  Just let me know and I'll
give you detailed instructions on how to do it.
 
	8. I'm behind a proxy, and I'd like to use GAIM.
		HTTP, Socks 4, and Socks 5 proxying should be working now.
None of them support authentication yet though.


III. Multiple Connections
	1. What do you mean by "multiple connections"?
		Multiple Connections means that it's possible to connect to
the AOL servers using more than one screenname at a time. When you connect
using more than one screenname, each name will have their own buddy list. Each
will be able to send messages and do all the normal things. It's just a way of
not having to run 3 copies of gaim for each of your screennames.

	2. What's a PRPL?
		PRPL stands for PRotocol PLugin. It's a way to dynamically add
new protocols to gaim. This allows you to use gaim as your AIM client, ICQ
client, Yahoo, client, and even IRC client, all at the same time. Loading a
PRPL is like loading any other plugin - simply load the file from the plugins
dialog.  Then simply add an account using the Account Editor and have it use
that protocol.

	3. What happens when I load a new protocol?
		Gaim keeps track of all the protocols that it knows about.
When you load a new protocol, it lets you add a new account that uses that
protocol. If you loaded the protocol as a plugin, and remove that plugin, gaim
then signs off any connections that were using that protocol, and forgets
about it. If you load a protocol that has already been loaded, it will unload
the original one and load the new one.

	4. So how do I add accounts?
		There is an Account Editor that is accessible from the main
signon window, and also from the Buddy List Tools menu. This brings up a
window that lets you add and remove accounts, modify them, and sign them on
independently of each other.

	5. This sucks. I want my old gaim back.
		Relax, there's a configure option, --disable-multi, that will
remove any way of having multiple connections from the UI. This gives gaim the
old familiar UI, and allow only one connection at a time. It will also benefit
from all of the features added that are not related to multiple connections
(like reporting idle times based on X usage).


IV. Problems
	1. WAAAAAH!  My sound doesn't work!
		./configure should autodetect whether or not you have ESD
libraries.  If you have them it _WILL_ compile with them, if not it won't. 
If it compiles with them, you don't need to be running the ESD daemon, it'll
automatically fallback to using /dev/dsp.  Make sure that gaim has proper
permissions to talk to /dev/dsp and /dev/audio though!

	2. My buddy list disappeared!
		You didn't back up your buddy list, did you?  You never back
anything up!  Oh well.  The TOC server loses lists from time to time, it
happens to me as well.  (And no, I never have a backup ;).  Gaim should have
kept a cache of your buddy list, though, so you shouldn't have this problem any
more.

        3. I click on URLs, but Netscape doesn't popup!
		Netscape either needs to be running on the current display
(gaim should handle remote netscape windows OK.), or 'netscape' needs to be
in your path.

        4. I don't use Netscape. 
		I'm very interested in supporting other web browsers.  Do
send me information on how to send a URL to your browser remotely (or point
me at the source to the browser, I might be able to figure it out.). 

	5. I'm using the GNOME client.  I have a bug.
		GNOME bugs should be reported to Eric Warmenhoven (IM:
EWarmenhoven (how original)), who is now maintaining that part of the code. If
you ask the other guys about it, they'll just point you at him.
	
	6. I have a bug not described here.
		Well, it could be a few things.  Firstly, you MUST HAVE GTK+
VERSION 1.2.3 installed!  Please state in any bug report that you ARE using
1.2.3, otherwise you have a chance of being ignored.  With that said ;)
head over to our page on Sourceforge, http://sourceforge.net/projects/gaim/.

	7. I have Mandrake 6.0 and GAIM doesnt work!

Bob Meyer <meyer_rm@yahoo.com> writes:

Here's the solution:
        * Get esound-0.2.12-4mdk.i586.rpm and
          esound-devel-0.2.12-4mdk.i586.rpm from any Mandrake mirror.
        * rpm --upgrade esound-0.2.12-4mdk.i586.rpm
        * rpm -- upgrade esound-devel-0.2.12-4mdk.i586.rpm

Don't use EVIL 'updates' tool.  It's broke.. really bad.

	Mandrake 6.1, with its newer libraries, appears to fix this problem.

V. Programming
	1. I have a patch for gaim!
		Nice.  Think about your patch though.  First, does it have
to do with AIM?  I won't apply patches for stock tickers, search engines,
etc.  Rewrite it as a plug-in if you really want bloat like that. 
Second, is it useful?  A lot of patches I get are horribly unuseful except
in very specific situations (ie YOUR situation).  Thirdly, your code 
will not retain your copyright.  All code submitted must be protected by 
the GPL and the copyright will be given to Mark Spencer.  If you don't 
like this, don't send me your patches.  You will be given authorship credit, 
don't worry -- I just want a homogenous copyright on the program.  Lastly,
does your code match the coding style already present in gaim?  I like my
brackets where I like them.  I do NOT like, in fact I positively HATE, I
DESPISE, with a PASSION, the convention of variablesLikeThis.  And 
functionsLikeThis.  If you do that, fine.  It's great.  But guess what?
This is C.  C programmers don't write like that.  I don't write like that.
I don't want to READ code like that.  I want a homogenous coding style
on this program, and it's gonna be MY coding style. :)
	Now, if you've managed to get through all that and I haven't
discouraged you entirely, send your patches to Rob Flynn (rob@linuxpimps.com).

	2. I have a plugin for gaim!
		Cool. Before you release it to anyone though, make sure you
understand that if it does anything useful, it is necessarily licenced under
the GPL. It's that whole "code that uses GPL'ed code is thus GPL'ed" clause.
Also, don't send it to us. It's not that we don't want it, but there are
better places to put it. Head over to sourceforge.net and submit it there
<http://sourceforge.net/patch/?group_id=235>. It'll be available more quickly
that way. 

	3. Can you teach me how to program GTK?
		Yes, I can.  But no, I'm not going to. There's a really
nice tutorial at http://www.gtk.org.  If you're a fairly experienced 
programmer, and you get stuck on something odd, IM me, I'm usually happy to
help.  If you had a little BASIC experience in high school and are having
trouble making a button widget do anything when you click it, buy a book on
C and read the damn GTK tutorial, I'm a busy person.


VI. Miscellaneous
	1. Can I talk to you on IM?
		Sure.  My IM name is RobFlynn.  The rest of the crew's IM names
can be found in various places.  Keep in mind though, I'm a very busy person. 
This IM name is used for friends as well as for gaim (I don't just log this
guy in when I want to talk to gaim people).  So please, don't IM me just to
chat, or to answer various Linux questions.  I'd like to be able to answer
everyone's questions on whatever (I usually do know the answer, or at least
where to find it!) but I just don't have time.  Things like this will
usually be ignored.  Other things to keep in mind when talking to me:  Don't
start off with 'I have a gaim question', 'Can I ask a question?', 'Hello?',
'Are you there?', 'Is this the gaim guy?', 'gaim doesn't work', 'I can't get
gaim to compile' or anything else like that.  Why?  If you'll notice in all
of the above statements, nothing useful has been said.  I'm often away from
my computer.  I suggest if you are having a serious problem or you have a
question, just ASK THE QUESTION, right off, I don't require any preliminary
stuff.  Simply sending me "gaim segfaults when I do 'blah blah click blah'"
to start a conversation is fine -- I don't consider it rude, please just ask
the question.  If I don't answer within a few minutes, leave your email
address, I will get back to you sooner or later.  Lastly, do NOT abbreviate
'you' as 'u', 'are' as 'r', 'to' as '2', 'for' as '4', or any of those other
annoying AOLisms.  They bother me greatly, and as I work long hours and am
an insomniac (probably because I'm such a mean bastard ;), I'm likely to
make fun of you, or more likely ignore you completely.  I don't require
perfect English but it'd be nice.

	2. I want to write an IM client.  Will you help me?
		No, unless you're writing one commercially.  Email me for
rates -- I'm not all that expensive. :)

	3. I have money.  I need some software written.  Can you help?
		Oh yes.  My email address is rob@blueridge.net and my
		screen name is RobFlynn.
	
	4. I have hardware that's not being used, or money.  Can you use it?
		Almost always.  I'm a broke college student.  We're all
broke here.  Flat busted.  Money would always help.  If you have some useful
equipment (or even useless equipment!  I like old mainframes and
workstations ;), do send it to us!  I might be able to scratch together
shipping money even. :)

	5. I would like to send you beer.
		OK.

	6. Are you going to port this thing to Windows?
		I've been mulling it over and playing with cygwin on the
tiny Windows partition I do have on my laptop (It's required for school),
but I'm not sure yet.  I actually do have a version of gaim running on it
now, as of 7/20.  However, the Win32 port of GTK has some issues that need
to be resolved before I can even attempt to release this.  Some of my WIN32
patches are included in this release, usually under an #ifdef _WIN32 (which
cygwin and I think other windows compilers set).  
		Update, 8/16/2000, more than one year later: No. The simple
answer is this will never be ported to Windows. I simply dislike windows
too greatly.

	7. Why the GPL?
		I like the GPL.  

	8. I use *BSD and I hate the penguin!  I want daemon images!
		Quit your complaining! They're there already! I still don't
understand why ya'll hate the penguin though, maybe it's just jealousy cause
our OS gets all the media attention? I kinda like the daemon :)

	9. Can I design a logo for you?
		Sure!  Do your best.  Entries may be emailed to: 
gaimlogo@blueridge.net.  After we get a nice supply of entries we'll sort
through them and pick the winner.

       10. What is a wagii?
		Interesting question that you ask, there.  `Wagii' is the 
official celebratory cry of gaim.  Anytime you are feeling happy or excited,
just remember all of the hard work that we have done to provide you with 
this wonderful, free piece of software -- as the pure, raw, emotion flows
through you, maybe you too will let out the cry of -- Wagii.
		Its also the sound a Penguin Samurai makes :)

       11. Speaking of the penguin, I heard a rumour you have a tattoo of  
           it.  Is that true?
		Hehe.  Yes, that is true.  He's on my left upper arm.  If
you'd like to see a picture, visit <http://www.woodsoup.org/~sbaker/tux/doc/>.
It's a 'history of Tux' and there's a pic of my tattoo at the bottom.  A pic
of my tattoo is also in the LIMP, and linux.remotepoint.com.  There's also a
picture of the two matching Tux tattoos that a husband and wife have in
there.  I've heard a rumour someone at Red Hat has one as well.  BTW -- no,
it really didn't hurt, and yes, I was sober ;)

       12. What Window Manager do you use?  What distribution do you use?
           What other stupid things can you ask me that don't really matter
           but ya'll ask me anyway?
		I use WindowMaker, without any GNOME or KDE bits.  I don't
really use a distro, per se, as it used to be a Red Hat distro a long time
ago, but since then I've custom-installed by hand from one hard drive to
another, so it really doesn't resemble Red Hat anymore, and I've written
most of the rc. scripts from scratch.  Please don't ask me Red Hat
questions, also I hate it when people assume that Red Hat == Linux. 

      13. Is XX a good harddrive, YY a good monitor, and ZZ a good CPU?
               Hmm, we're kinda poor so we cant be positive... if you wanna
send us some hardware we'll use it though and tell you how good it is *wink*

      14. Who designed the new logo?
	       A good guy named Naru Sundar.

      15. I want to contribute to the effort.  Where can I send beer to?
               IM RobFlynn or email him at rflynn@blueridge.net
