
libfaim pre-0.90 or so
----------------------

This is libfaim, the purpose of which is to implement as much as the
AOL AIM/OSCAR protocol as possible (which should be all of it).  After
nearly a year of development, its still nowhere close.  

This is not a full client and never will be.  libfaim only implements
the routines to implement a client (ie, there's no user interface).  

Status
------

I would not recommend using this version of libfaim in any form yet.  It's
beta-quality and I know it leaks memory quite badly.  It seems fairly
stable, however.  YMMV, YAYOR, etc.


Building
--------

Everything in this libfaim dist should build cleanly on any UNIX(-like)
operating system.  Originally developed on Linux+glibc.  Past versions 
known to work on Linux+libc5, FreeBSD, HP/UX, Solaris, Mac OS X Server,
and others.

libfaim builds as both libfaim.a and libfaim.so.  If your platform for
some reason does not support dynamic libraries (eg, you get errors when
building libfaim.so), you'll have to tweak the makefiles a bit to get
the utils/ directory to build.  

Otherwise, just do a 'make'.  I don't believe I use any specific features
GNU make, but if something fails, make sure you have it.  And bash too.


Accessories
-----------

In utils/, you'll find a few things extra:

  faimtest:   very rudimentary front-end.  no user interface, but does
              illustrate the basics of logging in and sending/recieving
              messages and buddy list notifications.  Potential front-
              end authors start here.

  aimpasswd:  utility to change an AIM password without using a full
              client.  Note that at the time of this writing, this
              didn't work quite right yet.  See the top of the code for
              latest status.

License
-------

libfaim is covered under my copyright under the terms of the Lesser GNU
Public License, as documented in the file COPYING in the top level directory.


Documentation
-------------

Unfortunatly, there is not currently any documentation on the libfaim API.
Use the source and utils/faimtest/faimtest.c as a reference when coding
front-ends.  


Contact Info
------------

The author (Adam Fritzler), can be reached at afritz@iname.com or mid@auk.cx.

I did have mailing lists available for faim-related discussion, but they
have dwindled and eventually broke and to my knowledge have yet to fix 
themselves.

Front-end information:
  http://www.auk.cx/faim/
Protocol information:
  http://www.auk.cx/faim/protocol/

